---
layout: post
title: "But first...gym"
author: "Winnie Fong"
categories: journal
tags: [fitness,gym,goals]
image: gym.jpg
---

If you’ve read my previous [post](https://ws-ds.github.io/journal/new-year-better-me.html), one of my resolutions is to improve my health and the key item on that list is to get back to working out!
It’s always difficult to find time for the gym when I’m at school. I start off the term all pumped and motivated to balance everything,
but by midterms it’s game over. Now that I’m working and supposedly have some more "free time", **no** more excuses.

This time around, I’m aiming to lose some weight, build some strength, and tone. For months I’ve been struggling to find the right balance
between my different exercises to achieve the results that I want, and I have yet to figure out what works for me. So,
I attended some personal training sessions, fitness consultations, and devised a master plan. Overall, my daily workout should
take about 1.5-2 hours, maintaining a 60-80% of max heart rate.

# The Plan

## Warm Up (15-20 minutes)
Some light exercises just to get my heart rate up.
- Stair master
- Treadmill
- Rowing

## Circuit (30 minutes)
This is where strength & conditioning comes in using my body weight/light weights. I'm going to pick 2 circuits, 3x15.

Circuit 1             | Circuit 2            | Circuit 3             | Circuit 4            | Circuit 5
--------------------- | ------------------- | -------------------- | -------------------- | ----------------- |
Push-up              | TRX row        | Deadlift with row    | Push up | Skaters
DB sumo squat + curl | TRX shoulder fly | LRD with squats | DB sumo squat + curl | Jump squats |
Superman burpees | TRX bicep curls | DB overhead press | DB rows | Plank tucks |
Walking lunges | TRX lunges | BOSU ball squats | High knees | Step ups with jump |
Kettle ball swing | TRX squats | Spiderman burpees | Tricep dips | Superman burpees |

## HIT (15 minutes)
I discovered this [Woodway Curve Treadmill](http://www.treadmillreviews.net/woodway-curve/). Essentially, it's built without a motor to replicate
real human speed and effort, with a curved surface to maximize acceleration. It was made to be an all-out sprinting machine, mimic outdoor
tracks, and useful for HIIT and sport specific training. I just got that off of their site, so it could all just be part of their marketing strategy.
Regardless, I’m going to give it a shot because it actually feels pretty good running on it.
- 15 seconds sprint
- 30 seconds rest

## Core & Stretching (15 minutes)
For now, I'm going to stick with 1x3.

Circuit 1             | Circuit 2            | Circuit 3             | Circuit 4            | Circuit 5
--------------------- | ------------------- | -------------------- | -------------------- | ----------------- |
30 Knee crunches | 30 Bicycle crunches | 30 Knee Crunches | 20 Reverse Crunches | 20 Pulse ups |
30 Scissor kicks | 20 Wipers | 10 V-ups | 30 Mountain Climbers | 30 Cross-body Mountain Climbers |
Hollow hold (30s) | Hollow hold (30s) | 30 Toe-taps | 10 V-ups | Superman (30s) |
10 V-ups | 10 V-ups | 20 Seated knee tucks | 30 Toe-taps | 30 Flutter kicks |
Plank (3 sides x 1 min) | Plank (3 sides x 1 min) | Plank (3 sides x 1 min) | Plank (3 sides x 1 min) | Raised leg plank (1 min) |

- Followed by a whole bunch of stretches
- Foam roll

# Schedule
Mondays to Fridays, I work in Cupertino so it's most convenient for me to go to the gym after work before commuting back to San Francisco. So,
I'm aiming to stick with *The Plan* for 5 days of the week. On the weekend, I'll join some HIIT classes and play volleyball. Aldrin and I live
right across from a community center so there's a really good space for us to pepper, play ball, and stay active!

> *If anyone has any tips or advice, please shoot me a message :) I'm still experimenting with all of this so I am open to suggestions! 






